Are you there? Is your name there? Is your name written in the book of life?
What book of life? Well, in Malachi, chapter 3, we notice that it refers to a book of remembrance
and this book has a record of all those who feared Jehovah and treasure his name.
Yes, this book of remembrance is a record of all those who are in line to receive everlasting life.
So all of us want to have our names written in that book, don't we?
But if we do have our book named in that book, does that mean automatically that we will receive
everlasting life? No. We remember what Jehovah said to Moses as recorded in Exodus 30,
there he said, anyone who sins against me, I will wipe out from my book.
So names can be erased from this book of life. It's as if our names are written in this book of
life in pencil. So all of us surely want to make sure that our names remain in this book of life,
right through to the time that they are written permanently in the book in pen as it were.
But whose names are in this book of life? We're going to consider together five different
groups of persons, some of whom have their names in the book of life and others don't.
So let's watch this presentation that discusses these five groups. The first group,
those who have been selected to rule with Jesus in heaven, are their names written in this book
of life? According to Philippians 4-3, the answer is yes. But even though they have been anointed
with Holy Spirit, they still need to remain faithful in order to have their names written
permanently in this book. The second group, the great crowd of Armageddon survivors,
are the names of these faithful ones now written in the book of life? Yes.
What about after they survive Armageddon? Will their names still be in the book of life? Yes.
How do we know? At Matthew 25-46, Jesus says that these sheep like ones depart into everlasting life.
But does that mean they are granted everlasting life at the beginning of the thousand year reign?
No. Revelation 7-17 tells us that Jesus will guide them to springs of waters of life.
So they don't immediately receive everlasting life. However, their names are written in the book of
life in pencil as it were. The third group, the goats who will be destroyed at Armageddon,
their names are not in the book of life. Second, Thessalonians 1-9 tells us,
these very ones will undergo the judicial punishment of everlasting destruction.
The same could be said of those who have deliberately sinned against the Holy Spirit.
They too receive everlasting destruction, not everlasting life.
So the first three groups are, the anointed, the great crowd, and the goats. Of these three,
only two are found in the book of life. Now let's talk about two more groups, those who will
be resurrected in the new world. First though, let's read together Acts 24-15.
There the Apostle Paul says, I have hoped toward God, which hope these men also look forward to,
that there is going to be a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous.
So the fourth group are the righteous who have died. These include some of our loved ones.
Are their names written in the book of life? Yes.
Revelation 17-8 tells us that this book has been in existence since the founding of the world.
Jesus referred to Abel as living from the founding of the world. So we can assume that his name
was the first name written in that book. Since that time, millions of other righteous ones
have had their names added to this book. Now here's an important question.
When these righteous ones died, were their names taken out of the book of life?
No. They're still living in Jehovah's memory. Remember Jesus said that Jehovah is a God not
of the dead, but of the living, for they are all living to him. The righteous will be restored
to life here on earth with their names still written in the book of life. They did good things
before they died. So that is why they will be part of the resurrection of the righteous ones.
No doubt some of them will receive privileges, such as serving as princes in all the earth.
Finally, let's talk about the resurrection of the unrighteous. For the most part,
the unrighteous didn't have an opportunity to develop a relationship with Jehovah.
They did not live righteous lives, so that's why they are called unrighteous.
When these unrighteous ones are resurrected, are their names written in the book of life?
No, but they're being resurrected gives them an opportunity to have their names
eventually written in the book of life. These unrighteous ones will need a lot of help.
In their former life, some of them practiced horrible, vile things. So they'll need to learn
to live by Jehovah's standards. To accomplish this, God's kingdom will sponsor the greatest
education program in all human history. Who will teach these unrighteous persons?
Those who have their names written in pencil in the book of life, the great crowd and the
resurrected righteous ones. How can these unrighteous ones have their names written in the book of
life? They will need to develop a relationship with Jehovah and dedicate their lives to him.
But will all the unrighteous accept that opportunity? No. Remember, all these unrighteous ones
will be under the careful watch of Jesus and His fellow judges. Isaiah 65-20 tells us
that those who refuse to accept this help will be removed. No one will be allowed to cause any
ruin in the new world. So any who display a wicked attitude during the thousand years will be
removed. With all these facts in mind then, let's now read together John 5, 28 and 29.
Jesus said, do not be amazed at this for the hour is coming in which all those in the memorial
tombs will hear His voice and come out. Those who did good things to a resurrection of life
and those who practice vile things to a resurrection of judgment. Now, for a few moments,
let's think about those verses in John 5, 28 and 29. Up to now, we have understood Jesus' words
to mean that the resurrected ones will do good things and some will do vile things after their
resurrection. But not as there in verse 29, Jesus didn't say they will do these good things or
they will practice vile things. He used the past tense, didn't he? Because he said they did
good things and they practiced vile things. So this would indicate to us that these deeds or actions
were committed by these ones prior to their death and before they would be resurrected.
So that makes sense, doesn't because no one is going to be allowed to practice vile things in
a new world. So what did Jesus mean when He mentioned these two factors? Well, for a start,
we could say the righteous ones still, when they're resurrected, have their names written
in the book of life. It's true, Romans chapter 6 verse 7 says that when someone dies,
His sins are canceled. But take note of this, not their record of faithfulness. That's not canceled.
So the righteous ones are resurrected into the new world and their names are still in the book
of life. Of course, they need to remain faithful during the thousand years to keep their names
in their book of life. But what about the unrighteous ones? Well, these are the ones who did vile
things before they died. So when they're resurrected, they don't have their names in the book of life.
It's not a resurrection to life. It's a resurrection to judgment. Now, why do we say that?
Because there we could say the word judgment is not referring to a condemnation.
It's not referring to something that is totally negative. It's true at times the word judgment
can have that meaning. But in the context of these verses, it seems that Jesus is using the word
judgment in a more neutral sense. So it means more in evaluation or a probation period.
So the unrighteous ones will have an opportunity to accept this wonderful education work that's
going to be done in the new world. And during that time, they will be evaluated. And if they
dedicate their lives to Jehovah, then their names will be written into the book of life.
Now, at this point, you're probably thinking, hmm, is this an adjustment to our understanding?
Yes, it is. So now you think, now, can you just run that past me again?
Well, let's look at this little summary that will help us.
When Jesus spoke in John 529 of those who would receive a resurrection of life,
he was referring to those who did good things before they died, those whose names are written
in the book of life. The resurrection of judgment at John 529 involves the resurrection of those
who practice vile things before they died and whose names are not yet written in the book of life.
But where the previously righteous or unrighteous, all these resurrected ones will need to obey
the laws and the new scrolls referred to in Revelation 20 verse 12. There it says,
I saw the dead, the great and the small standing before the throne, and scrolls were opened.
But another scroll was opened. It is the scroll of life. The dead were judged out of those things
written in the scrolls, according to their deeds. Yes, they will be judged individually,
according to their deeds. But what deeds? Will it be their deeds committed before they died?
No, otherwise the resurrection of the unrighteous would have been a pointless waste.
Here then, their deeds cannot be deeds from their former life.
Rather, this verse must refer to their deeds in response to their training in the new world.
Even such faithful men as Noah, Samuel, David, and Daniel will have to learn about the sacrifice
of Christ and exercise faith in it. All of this also helps us to understand an amazing prophecy
in the book of Daniel. Let's turn there. It's Daniel 12 verses 1 through 3.
There it says, during that time, Michael, who is Jesus Christ, will stand up. That is at
Armageddon. The great prince who is standing since 1914 in behalf of your people.
And there will occur a time of distress. That is the great tribulation,
such as has not occurred since there came to be a nation until that time.
And during that time, your people will escape. Everyone who has found written down
in the book, and this refers to the great crowd. But notice what follows.
And many of those asleep in the dust of the earth will wake up,
some to everlasting life, and others to reproach and to everlasting contempt.
So looking at Daniel 12 and verse 2, it seems appropriate to that we are just
our understanding of this verse. Notice that it speaks about people waking up in the form of
a resurrection. And this occurs after what's mentioned in verse 1, after the great crowd
survived the great tribulation. So this obviously is talking about a literal resurrection
of the righteous and unrighteous. But what does it mean when it mentions there in verse 2 that some
will be raised to everlasting life and others to everlasting contempt? What does that really mean?
Well, when we notice that, we notice there's a little different from what Jesus said in John
chapter 5. He spoke about life and judgment. But now here it's talking about everlasting life
and everlasting contempt. So that term everlasting helps us to realize that this is talking about the
final outcome after these ones have had an opportunity to accept the education. So those who are
resurrected who make good use of this education, well, they will continue on and ultimately receive
everlasting life. But then on the other hand, any who refuse to accept the benefits of that
education, they will be judged as worthy of eternal destruction. Now let's finally read
verse 3. And those having insight will shine as brightly as the expansive heaven
and those bringing the many to righteousness like the stars forever and ever.
This is speaking about the massive education work that will be done in the new world.
The glorified andointed ones will shine brightly as they work closely with Jesus
to direct the education work that will bring them many to righteousness.
What a joy it will be for them to take part in this amazing work in their role as priests.
They will assist with the healing of the nations. And what a privilege it will be to see obedient
humans become free from the burden of sin and death and gain perfection. Of course, we have to
realize that at that time on earth there won't be just resurrected ones, will they? There'll be the
survivors of Armageddon and any children that are born in the new world. These ones will ultimately
attain to perfection. So is that when they get their names written as it were in ink in the book?
Not quite yet. Why not? Well, because perfection doesn't automatically mean that someone would
get everlasting life. Remember the case of Adam and Eve? They were perfect. But before they could
attain to everlasting life, they had to prove their obedience to Jehovah. Yes. So we realize then
that in the case of Adam and Eve, they failed. So a question is raised with regard to all
these perfect ones on the earth at that time. The resurrected ones, the survivors of the great
tribulation as well as any children that will have been born. Will they stand faithful? Will they
continue to support Jehovah's sovereignty? Or will some of them be like Adam and Eve? Be perfect,
but then unfaithful? Well, the book of Revelation helps us to understand that to answer that question,
Satan is released from the symbolic prison and he has an opportunity to test the integrity of
Jehovah's servants. So each person on earth will have a personal opportunity to show where they
stand on the issue of universal sovereignty. And their individual response will show whether or
not their names should be written permanently in the book of life. Some an unspecified number
will turn their backs on Jehovah and will not support his sovereignty. What will happen to those?
Well, Revelation 20 verse 15 tells us, doesn't it? Anyone who isn't found written in the book of
life will receive everlasting destruction. But this is the good news. The majority of perfect
mankind will find themselves passing the final test. Yes, and their names will be written
permanently in the book of life. Isn't that exciting to think about what's going to happen
in the future? Yes, now is the time Jehovah is preparing his people for this massive education
work that is going to take place in the new world. So now's the time for each one of us to think
about that question. Are you there? Is your name in the book of life? Yes, may your name be found
written in Jehovah's book of life and may it remain there forever.